---
bg: "tools.jpg"
layout: post
title:  SQL Function Right()
crawlertitle: Markdown sample
summary: Description for this article
date:   2018-08-10
categories: posts
tags: ['SQL']
author: Irene Y.
bg: "african-penguins.jpg"
---

SQL Right() is an inbuilt function that is used for extracting a substring starting from the right, followed by the number of characters. The RIGHT() function extracts several characters from a string (starting from right). SQL RIGHT() function extracts the given number of characters from the right side of the specified character string.

# **SQL Right Function**

So, if you are searching for a substring of the right part of the main string, then you can use the RIGHT() function.  It accepts two parameters the string and no. of characters we are looking for in the string.

See the syntax of the SQL Right function.

```
SELECT RIGHT (string, no_of_characters);
```

The function accepts two parameters.

# **Parameters**

1. **String**: The input string from which the substring will be extracted and can be a literal string, variable, or column.
2. **No_of_characters**: The number of characters you wish to extract from the string.

The RIGHT() function returns the value of **VARCHAR** when the input_string is non-Unicode character data type and returns an **NVARCHAR** if the input_string is a Unicode character [data type](https://appdividend.com/2019/06/17/sql-datatypes-tutorial-datatypes-in-sql-explained/).

# **Query 1**

```
SELECT RIGHT ('AppDividend.com', 3);
```

### **Output**

```
'com'
```

Here 3 characters were displayed starting from the rightmost part of the string.

# **Query 2**

```
SELECT RIGHT ('AppDividend.com', 4);
```

### **Output**

```
'.com'
```

Here 4 characters were displayed starting from the rightmost part of the string.

# **Query 3**

```
SELECT RIGHT ('SQL IS FUN', 4);
```

### **Output**

```
' FUN'
```

Here 3 characters were displayed starting from the rightmost part of the string. Before FUN, there is whitespace, which is also counted as a character.

# **Query 4**

```
SELECT RIGHT ('SQL IS FUN', 20);

```

### **Output**

```
'SQL IS FUN'
```

Here the number of characters exceeded the length of the string as a whole result string is displayed as an output.

Now if we want to display the last 7 digits of the phone, then the following query has to be written:

# **Query**

```
Select First_name AS Emp_Name, RIGHT (Phone, 7) AS Last_seven_digit 
from Employee;

```